# _Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington_

Since 1989, _The Simpsons_ have been providing subtle social and political commentary through satire in an animated medium. In the episode _Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington_, the writers take on the topic of political corruption and the lack of knowledge in our governmental system. Throughout the episode Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington, The Simpsons suggest that, despite the informed's efforts to counterbalance corruption, America is primarily run on neither knowledge nor democratic ideal, but rather greed for wealth and power. A stark contrast is created between the informed, educated Lisa and her uneducated father, Homer — they play opposites on the spectrum of the voter. Lisa does her best to shed light on the corruption of her senator, Bob Arnold, who takes a bribe to cut down Springfield Forest. Homer, meanwhile, is taking advantage of the services that are offered to the Simpson family when Lisa wins an essay-writing contest. This disparity between the characters' personalities is meant to represent the disparity between the informed and uninformed in the voting public. 

Homer plays the part of the stereotypical American voter — lazy, greedy, and uninformed. At the beginning of the episode, he discovers a check for one million dollars from a Publishers Clearinghouse-type company. He rushes to the bank to deposit the check, but the teller repeatedly tells him it isn't a valid check: he comes back and complains to his family, and Lisa points out, "I don't think real checks have exclamation points" ("Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington"). This greed continues when he goes on a visit to the U.S. Treasury, and is upset when he learns that they don't have free samples ("lousy cheap country").

He also passes on this trait to his son, Bart. He doesn't have much dialogue in this episode, but he is discovered by his father in the hotel room ordering room service and massages. Originally, Homer is furious at him — he believes they have to pay for these services. However, once Bart reminds them that this is an all expenses paid vacation, he quickly changes his mind. He completely overlooks the fact that someone, somewhere will have to pay for these services. But, because it is not him, he does not care.

This greed motif reappears later with Congressman Bob Arnold. He is also excessively greedy — he is completely willing to accept bribes from the timber industry and oil industry. There is a slight glimmer of hope when the timber industry representative first approaches him — when he is asked to remove the protected status of Springfield National Forest, he is hesitant. But, once money is brought into the picture, his opinion does a complete reversal.

A point is made to show that this trait is a common characteristic of the American people. It does not matter what role you have in the democratic process — you could be an ordinary voter, or you could be a powerful Senator in Congress. This is an issue that perforates all levels of the American populace.

The disparity between the informed and uninformed is stressed when he receives a free subscription to _Reading Digest_ (an obvious spin-off of _Reader's Digest_). He becomes enamored with reading after seeing a cartoon on one of the pages. It quickly becomes his sole source of information, and then scolds Lisa and Bart for watching cartoons on "that idiot box". Eventually, when Lisa is at the regional essay writing contest, he tells the Reading Digest representative that his favorite part of the magazine is the "Expanding Your Vocabulary" section, which he says is "good". He gives the impression that he knows what he is talking about when talking to others — he says he reads this magazine, therefore he is knowledgeable. This is obviously not true, given what other things he says throughout the episode.

Lisa is shown to be the antithesis of Homer and Senator Arnold — she is intelligent and informed about government. She wins the regional essay writing contest, and is awarded extra points by the judge when the judge meets Homer. Her shining moment in this moment is when she overhears the senator Bob Arnold accept a bribe from the timber industry so that Springfield National Forest can be razed. This causes her to lose faith in the government, and instead of reading her patriotic, nationalistic speech for the judges, she drafts another, highly critical speech. She wants to make things right, despite the ramifications — she would lose the $10,000 prize. In her speech, she details what she heard, and immediately, one of the judges (an assistant to another Congressperson), calls his Senator to say that "a little girl has lost faith in democracy". Quickly, impeachment hearings are brought about against Congressman Arnold, and he is expelled. When Lisa hears about this, she exclaims "the system works!"

She is quite obviously an informed citizen — for example, she knows how many women Senators there are in Congress when Bob Arnold does not. She possesses the intelligence to go to her predecessors (Abraham Lincoln and then Thomas Jefferson) for help with a significant problem, unlike the others making appeals to the founders with arbitrary issues. She foregoes the prize to do what is right. The writers make the point to make her seem like the flawless, upstanding citizen.

This contrast makes it completely obvious to the audience how we should behave, and where we as a nation are at the moment. The fact that the Senator readily accepts the bribe, it gives us the impression that this is normal and the way things should and always have been. Lisa comes along and challenges that ethos, and shows us the way we should be as a nation.

---

“Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington.” _The Simpsons_. Writ. George Meyer. Dir. Wes Archer. Fox, 1991. Web. 9 September 2013

"Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington." _Wikipedia_. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 19 Sept. 2013. <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr._Lisa_Goe
